

Fri. Jan 11 '02-very mild for January

Dear Roy and Jessica,
So happy to know that you are in your new home and getting settled. I did watch the Rose Bowl parade on the TV, thinking of you and Pasadena most of the time. I too am glad that Christmas is past again. Bah Humbug! It certainly wasn't the greatest.

Going back to '43 and why Jane travelled so much, I am thinking that the deal she had with Liberty Mutual must have been very good with them paying expenses to Boston--otherwise Jane would not have gone. She didn't have any real wanderlust. It's just the way it happened. It's not clear to me just what the deal was. At that time jobs were very hard to come by even for college grads and especially women. Our one advantage was that with so many men in service or about to be drafted, women had to be seriously considered. Jane had worked part time for insurance company while in college and that was her only experience other than waiting tables. Mom was away on a baby sitting job having promised to stay until the 6th child was born. All this time the money that had been put aside for Jane and I was safely in the bank not to be touched until you need to buy a home or unless you are desperate. Why did we live that way 2 takes me back to the settling of Dad's estate, the wrangle with the brothers and you might call it Mom's peculiar ways and insistance.

Dad left a pile of money, about $60,000 in cash, no debts, the Tile Co. property and few personal possessions. The piano belonged to M&L. The house was in Moms name and cars to F&B. There was his Masonic ring and sword and a gold watch that had been presented to him also many IOU' s GW Plinke included in the debts owed. Life Insurance was quite small -I don't remember. The will left everything to his wife. Fred and Ben thought that M&L should not share equally with them because we were younger children? or girls? Had to go to Probate Court and their decision was that we share equally unless anybody can prove that FKI was not our father. In the court, Mam was made our guardian and told that she could use any or all of the money set aside for us. She understood that and F&B thought she used that money to send us to school and that the remainder of her estate would be divided in time.

By this time Mom could hardly speak to her sons especially about money. Mom used her money to send us to school and kept all the proceeds from the sale of the house. Even at that time she was thinking she would like to go into the Methodist Home and knew that she would have to turn over all she had left. That is why she wanted our money out of her hands. She was a widow for 18 years. Nobody liked for her to talk about that Home but she had it figured out and was very insistent. She was able to leave them a bit of cash, her life insurance policy and the Tile property. But at the time of her funeral there was no further distribution for her children. No Social Security or Medicare for her, she had to be pretty wise and very generous to her children. And a very good manager of the money, She could have rented a nice place and paid for her medical care! Dad also could have spent his money any which way. It is as though he knew she would need it if anything happened to him.

Never denigrate your British accent. You had the finest education that is available anywhere. Jane and Jim moved to Dulwich to be near Alleyn's school so that you and Fred could attend there. Of course you and Fred took advantage of that and were very good students. Jane and I did agree that Am schools do not measure up. Some make it very well but there is too much effort to supply the best education for every last student whether they accept it
or not.

In the dating areas Jane never would date the good time Charlie's. She sought the sober one, interested in her, of course, but also interested in family and education. When she was packing her things to go to England the second time, she sold her car and the dishes, left the vacuum cleaner with me and took my very large suitcase as well as her own. I noticed that she took a small quilt or lap robe that Mom had made--squares of men's suit material with red binding. Just right for a childs bed. Apparently she was thinking child at that time. Do you remember that?

Most of the other boyfriends either were Jewish or she wasn't interested for some unknown reason or Mary Lou's Catholic boy friends. I'll close for now hoping I gave some insights It's hard to tell all the funny little stories about our past.

Take care of yourselves and I wish the very best for both of you.
Marianne

P.S.
Other facts come to mind that might have influenced Jane to go to England and give Jim a chance. I told you about the great housing shortage of rental flats at anything like a reasonable price from the '30's and still going in '54. After we gave up the flat on Fullerton, I was married and we moved to Des Plaines. Mom was in the Home November of that year and Jane was at Eleanor club, a place to stay for single women, the dormitory at Northwestern and sharing digs with Mary Lou. I had some of Jane's things stored. You can hardly call that very fancy or living at home. Mary Lou's real home was in Boston. In 1950 Ben and Florence were divorced. Mom was terribly curious but unable to attend the hearing So Jane attended the hearing and reported back to Mom. Ben stayed in their basement flat which was a very nice one at a very reasonable price. Jane mentions this to Mom and Mom was horrified saying "Don't you ever think of sharing a flat with Ben". End of these memories.
 

